Hello everyone and welcome to the solution lecture for the largest continuous sum problem.
So the problem statement was given an array of integers that could be either positive or negative.
Find the largest continuous sum.
So our solution goes a little something like this.
If the array is all positive then we just simply need to sum all the numbers.
So that makes sense.
The negative numbers in the array.
It's what's going to cause us to need to begin checking sequences.
So here's the algorithm we're going to follow.
We start summing up the numbers and store in a current some variable after adding each element we check
whether the current sum is larger than the maximum sum encountered so far.
If it is the update that Max sum as long as the current sum is positive we keep adding the numbers when
the current sum becomes negative.
We start with a new current sum because a negative current sum will only decrease the sum of a future
sequence and note that we don't reset the current sum to zero because the array can contain all negative
numbers.
Then the result would be the large negative number.
So let's go ahead and see the code here and then walk through it and code it out.
So we're going to start by just saying it's good.
Delete this piece we're going to start out by naming our function and we're just going to call it large
underscore cons for continuous sum and it takes in an array.
This case or python list.
So we're going to check to see if arrays length 0.
First because we know that the arrays length 0 we just return 0.
Or you could also put none.
So what we're going to do is start the max in current sum at the first element.
So I'm going to take in and create two variables.
I'm going to say Max sum is equal to current sum is equal to the first element or zero.
And now we're going to go through the algorithm.
Scientists say for every element in the array cipher known in array and I'm actually going to skip that
first element.
Since you've already set it as our maximum sum in our current sum so I have that going on and then what
I'm going to do is set the current sum as the higher of the two.
So I'm going to say current sum is equal to max of current Some compared to what Plus the number compared
to the number itself.
So what I'm doing is I have my number.
I have my current sum and I'm setting current sum plus the number we're at right now versus just a given
number.
Take the max of that and set it to be the current sum.
Next one I'm going to do is my max sum is going to be whichever is greater between the current sum and
the current max so current sum and Max sum and then I'll need to do is return the max sum.
So let's go ahead and see if this works.
I'm going to call and paste.
So here we have an array.
We have 1 2 negative 1 3 4 10 10 negative 10 and negative 1.
So are sequence that should produce the highest sum is right here.
Let's go ahead and see if it gets it.
So it's calculating now and it gets 29.
Great so many times in an interview setting this question also requires you to report back the start
and the end points of that sum.
Keep this in mind and see if you can solve that problem.
We'll actually see that statement of the problem.
Returning back to start and end points later on in the mock interview section of this course.
So let's go ahead and walk through the solution one more time.
So let's go ahead here and take it step by step.
First thing we're doing we're just doing an edge case check if the array length is equal to zero.
We just return 0 for the rest of it.
So what we're doing we're starting by saying the max sum and the current sum is equal to the first elements
then going along for each number in that array not including the first element.
We take the current sum and find out which is larger the current sum plus the current number or the
current number itself.
Then reset the current sum equal to whichever one of those two is larger then we have the maximum sum
tracker.
Now we're going to keep track of current sum of Maxim to every one of those is larger gets reset for
the max sum.
After we go for each number in the array we'll have our final Max sum as the basically the largest current
sum there ever was.
Compared to the maximum and then we just returned the max sum.
All right.
So again we sum up the numbers and store in some sort of current sum variable which was here.
Then after adding each element we check whether the current sum is larger that maximum sum encountered
so far.
If it is then we just updated that maximum sum in this line.
As long as that current sum is positive we can just keep adding the numbers when the current sum becomes
negative.
We start off a new current sum because a negative current sum will only decrease the sum of a future
sequence.
In that note here we're not resetting that current sum to zero because the array could contain all negative
integers.
Then the result will just end up being that largest negative number.
OK so that's it for the solution.
Go ahead and go through it and really make sure that when you're going through this you're also practicing
going through it by hand with pen and paper or on a white board.
All right.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture